Hello, and welcome back! In this video, we're going to change our spawning, so that
we spawn enemies one by one. Right now, we're spawning enemies all at once. So let's
take a look at what that actually means.
We jump back into our game, and let's stop the game
here and play again. And you can see that they all simply appear into existence, and
if I kill all of them, you'll see that they also just simply reappear. There's no spawn delay,
they all just turn up at once. We want
to change that behavior. Instead of all
the enemies turning up at once, what we
want to do is make sure that they are spawned
one by one, until the entire formation is
formed. And we're going to add a
little delay between each enemy, to make sure that it looks and feels right, that the enemies
are kind of flying in and coming towards the player, rather than just all popping into
existence, suddenly. So what we're going to do is create the NextFreePositionFunction(). In fact,
you're going to do that; you're going to
create the NextFreePositionFunction(). To
create the NextFreePositionFunction(), we're going to take a look at the code, and we're
going to use the AllMembersDead()
function, as a template. Now, the
NextFreePositionFunction... Now, let me write out the expected signature, so that is going to
return a transform... It's going to return a transform, and it's going to be
called NextFreePosition(){}. So you want
to use the logic, similar to AllMembersAreDead(){}.
We're going to loop over every
position, in our transform formation, and
we're going to check whether the child
position is empty or not, and if it's
empty, we're going to return it. And
if it's not empty, if all of them are full, we're
going to reach the end of the full reach loop, and we're going to return 0, as in
nothing. So that's what we're going to do
in the next free position method, and
that's what I want you to do, now. So, jump into your code. Jump into your editor, and create the
next free position, using the AllMembersDead() method as inspiration. And I will
see you when you're done.
So, how did it go? Did you manage to get the NextFreePosition method created? To get the
NextFreePosition, using the AllMembersDead(),
let's take a look at how we would do
that. So, we jump into our code, and we have the
NextFreePosition template, and it's going
to return a transform. Now, I want to
inspire myself from before,
from the AllMembersDead, so I'm
going to do this and I'm going to change a few
key features. Firstly, I don't want to
return false or true, I want to return
the position. So childPosition or null.
So those are my two changes to start with.
Next, I don't want to return the childPosition, when it's got something in it,
I want to return it when it doesn't. So
when the childCount of the position
in the enemy formation is 0, as in
it doesn't have an enemy attached. And
that's now my NextFreePosition method.
It'll return the NextFreePosition in
the formation. So how are we going to do that to use it? How are we going to use this to spawn
the enemy's one by one? Well, let's start
thinking about the spawn enemies...
SpawnUntilFull function. So the SpawnUntilFull function is going to go and
replace the SpawnEnemies function. So we have the SpawnEnemies and the SpawnEnemies here, in the
update, in case all of the members are dead. And we also have it at the start when, the enemies
just suddenly appear at the beginning. So we want to change SpawnEnemies, so we're going to change it by
creating a SpawnUntilFull function. So, we're going to go void SpawnUntilFull(){} method, and
that's going to replace our SpawnEnemies method. So, we're going to replace it
in the start, and we're also going to
replace it in the update, when all the
members are dead. So, we save that now, and we go back to our SpawnUntilFull method.
So what do we want to do here? Well, we
want to use the method we just created, the
NextFreePosition, and we want to spawn
at that NextFreePosition. So let's grab
the NextFreePosition to start off with.
So we go Transform, next position, or freePosition, and that's the position in the
formation is going to be = NextFreePosition. I've got that the wrong way around, here we go.
So, that's my NextFreePosition. How do I spawn an enemy onto my NextFrreePosition?
Well, really we use the same
code as here, in the SpawnEnemies
method, instead of using child.transform.position we're going to
use the free position, itself. So no
longer child.transform, but FreePosition,
instead. And that will literally just spawn a single enemy right? We're no longer
using a loop here. We've got a loop in
the SpawnEnemies, because it's spawning
every single one of them, but here we're just spawning one enemy. So how do we make it
so that it has a delay until the next
enemy? In fact, there's another issue here.
What if there is no free position, when we call the SpawnUntilFull function? We could return null
here, free position would be null, and we'd get an error on line 33, right here, we'd get an
error on this, line because there would
be no enemies... and there would be
or rather no position, the position would be null and we'd be...
trying to get the position in X and Y and Z coordinate of a null. That doesn't make
much sense, so we need to check whether or
not the free position exists, before we
start and put an enemy in there. Right, we can't put and enemy in something that doesn't
exist. So we do if (freePosition), so if there is
a position then, we can do that stuff,
right. We don't want to do this stuff, if
there's no free position, we'll get an
error on the console. So, now the question
becomes, how do we spawn the next enemy? Right, we're spawning a single enemy here. How do we
spawn the next one?
Well, we could put all this in a loop, a loop of every enemy, but then that
would have the same behavior as SpawnEnemies. What we want to do is call it
with a little delay, so we're going to use
the Invoke method to call the same function,
SpawnUntilFull, with a little delay. So
let's take a look. I'm using Invoke,
and I'm going to invoke SpawnUntilFull,
in a little while. So I'm basically saying
the SpawnUntilFull method is saying, I'm
going to do this stuff, and then, I'm going
to wait a little bit, and then, in the
future, I'm going to get called again. And the
future is going to be in spawn delay. This
is the different... the
time difference between every spawn. So call a spawn delay. I haven't created the
variable yet, but we can create that. I'm
saving that, going back up to the top of
my file, adding a public float spawnDelay. And my spawnDelay is going to be,
let's say about half a second, so they
come in one after the other,
every half second 0.5 float semi-colon. So
now, I've got a spawndelay, and I'm
going to be calling my SpawnUntilFull, every 0.5 seconds.
Let's see whether that builds or is causing me an error. Yes, I've forgotten to the equal sign, not
very clever really. So, let's try and build that again, and now, we can see everything is black.
Everything is working as we want it to.
However, can you spot the error here? Can you spot the little problem in the logic?
When I'm going to call my SpawnUntilFull method, I'm never going to stop
calling it. If we take a look here, let's
say all of the positions have now been
filled. We're still going to call
ourselves again here, and then, when we
come back in half a second we're, going to go
Transform freePosition is NextFreePosition
Well, there's no free position,
so that's going to become null. FreePosition is now null. If FreePosition is full, so
we skip this bit, and then, we
jump back to invoking ourselves in half a
second. So basically, that means the
enemies are going to come in, every half second, and
the player is never going to have the
satisfaction of destroying the entire
formation. What's going to happen is, he's
going to shoot one down, and half a second
later, the enemy's going to spawn again.
That's not what we want. We don't want
that. We want the enemies to have the
satisfaction of killing the entire
formation, to feel like he's making progress, he's destroying waves of
enemies one after the other. That's a really important bit of the game play. So,
we're going to need to make sure that we only invoke ourselves if there is another
FreePosition, right. We don't want to invoke ourselves again, if there are no other
FreePositions, otherwise why would we
do that. So, in here I'm going to check. So
I'm going to have an if statement; if
something then, I will Invoke myself. So,
what do I want in here? Right, what's the
condition? Well, if next position, right. If
there's a NextPosition, how did we do that, in the past? Well, we just
used the NextFreePosition method didn't we, so let's use it again. We can use NextFreePosition
here, and now, that will make
sure that we only spawn an enemy, again
in the future and a half a second or
whatever the spawn number is, if there is a
free position. So we'll never keep calling
ourselves, we'll stop calling ourselves,
when we've filled the entire formation, and
that is it. That is how we spawn
enemies one by one in our game. Let's
take a look at the effect. We spent far
too long in the code. Let's have a look at
how it looks. So you can see they're coming
in one by one, exactly like we want them
to. And when we kill them all, instead of them
spawning back or rather when they kill
us, they're pretty tough. So when they kill us,
let's kill them all. Here we go, we've got the wave, and they come back one after the
other. Fantastic! That's exactly the
behavior we want, and that is the end of
this video. We've really used recursion
here.
That is one of the little tricks, when
you're using a method to call itself, and
that's what we've used to make sure that
we can spawn all the enemies, until they're...
I hope you've enjoyed the video. I hope you found it
useful, and I will see you in the next
one. Bye for now.